How_to_Process_Lear_Dropsondes   

Updated 26 June 2008 - LECully

BEWARE: Use the How To doc for this processing found in the CDS/DMG
Plone documentation area. Keep that doc up-to-date. That is/should
be a better and more complete doc than this one. Please update the
Plone version of this doc for all subsequent runs.

Download the updated set of dirs and software from the svn library.
This s/w was updated for the IHOP 2002 reprocessing.

Use "ant" with the build.xml file to automate processing. The commands
are listed below.


1. From the svn checkout, you should see the following files and dirs:

build.xml - ant build.xml command file used to automate the processing.

5mb - 5MB extraction directory. 5mb data are placed in this dir.
database - This dir contains the final data file ready to be placed into
    the EMDAC system.
docs - documents dir.
final - "Final" dir where ....data is located.
logs - log files from the autoqc processing are placed here. User may also
    place all other logs in this dir, too.
output - Contains files converted from EOL Class to ESC format. The Lear*.pl code
    output is here.
raw_data - raw data files in Class format are located here. These files will be
    converted to ESD format.  Ensure that the data files are in subdirs by research
    flight number, e.g., "RF23". The conversion s/w expects this or may fail
    silently!
software - The software to do the conversion from EOL Class format to ESC format is here.
tools - assortment of scripts. May not be needed.


2. Convert the raw data from Class to ESC.

Go to the /software directory and run Lear_Dropsonde_Converter.pl. This s/w will
place *** files in the /output dir. The s/w outputs a list of files that are being processed.

3. Check the format of ESC converted data.

Execute the following command at the command line:
"ant check-format-ESC" .

See the check-format-ESC section in the build.xml file in the 
top directory and run from that directory. This command will format check the ESC files
in the "output" directory. An output checker log will be placed in that same dir.
Examine that log and pass on to scientific staff.

4. Run autoqc on the format checked data.
Ensure that you are using the correct autoqc properties file. For the IHOP2002 
reprocessing, we used file "us_plains_autoqc.properties". This file must be
placed in the software directory.

5. Create dayfiles by using the appropriate ant command. See the build.xml
file. Verify that the check formater is run automatically by the ant command.

Hint: Also see the How To for the Falcon data processing.
---end of file---

